README.md, before:

# Unifi Firmware Proxy

🚀 **TLS SNI Proxy for bypassing Unifi firmware update geo-blocking**

This Node.js application implements a TLS passthrough proxy that routes Unifi device firmware update traffic through your own server, effectively bypassing geo-restrictions without decrypting traffic.

## ✨ Features

- **TLS Passthrough** - SNI inspection without decrypting traffic (end-to-end encryption preserved)
- **IP Whitelist** - CIDR notation support for security
- **Rate Limiting** - Per-IP connection limits
- **Health Checks** - Railway-compatible health endpoints
- **Structured Logging** - JSON logs with Pino for production monitoring
- **Graceful Shutdown** - Proper connection cleanup on SIGTERM/SIGINT
- **Statistics** - Real-time connection and domain metrics

## 🎯 Supported Domains

The proxy automatically routes traffic for these Unifi domains:

- `fw-download.ubnt.com`
- `fw-update.ubnt.com`
- `fw-update.ui.com`
- `apt.artifacts.ui.com`
- `apt-beta.artifacts.ui.com`
- `apt-release-candidate.artifacts.ui.com`

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Deploy to Railway

1. **Fork this repository** to your GitHub account

2. **Create a new Railway project**:
   - Go to [Railway](https://railway.app)
   - Click "New Project" → "Deploy from GitHub repo"
   - Select your forked repository

3. **Configure environment variables** in Railway dashboard:
   ```env
   PORT=443
   HEALTH_PORT=3000
   ALLOWED_IPS=YOUR_WAN_IP
   LOG_LEVEL=info
   ```

4. **Get your Railway deployment URL** - Railway will provide a public IP/domain

5. **Configure your Unifi Network** (see Configuration section below)

### Local Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Copy environment template
cp .env.example .env

# Edit .env with your settings
nano .env

# Run in development mode (with auto-restart)
npm run dev

# Or run in production mode
npm start
```

## ⚙️ Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `PORT` | `443` | Main proxy server port (Railway will auto-assign) |
| `HEALTH_PORT` | `3000` | Health check HTTP server port |
| `ALLOWED_IPS` | `0.0.0.0/0` | Comma-separated IPs or CIDR ranges |
| `LOG_LEVEL` | `info` | Logging level (debug, info, warn, error) |
| `LOG_PRETTY` | `false` | Enable pretty logs for development |
| `PROXY_CONNECT_TIMEOUT` | `10000` | Upstream connection timeout (ms) |
| `PROXY_TIMEOUT` | `300000` | Idle connection timeout (ms) |
| `PREREAD_TIMEOUT` | `10000` | ClientHello read timeout (ms) |
| `RATE_LIMIT_PER_IP` | `100` | Connections per IP per minute |

### IP Whitelist Examples

```env
# Single IP
ALLOWED_IPS=203.0.113.5

# Multiple IPs
ALLOWED_IPS=203.0.113.5,198.51.100.10

# CIDR notation (subnet)
ALLOWED_IPS=192.168.1.0/24

# Mixed
ALLOWED_IPS=203.0.113.5,192.168.0.0/16,10.0.0.1
```

## 🔧 Unifi Network Configuration

After deploying the proxy, configure DNS overrides in your Unifi Network Controller:

### UniFi Network 9.4.19+ (Policy Engine)

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **Advanced Features** → **Policy Engine**
2. Go to **Policy Table** tab
3. Click **Create New Policy**
4. Select **DNS** → Type: **Host (A)**
5. Add these DNS overrides (replace `YOUR_RAILWAY_IP` with your Railway deployment IP):

| Domain Name | IP Address |
|-------------|------------|
| `fw-update.ubnt.com` | `YOUR_RAILWAY_IP` |
| `fw-download.ubnt.com` | `YOUR_RAILWAY_IP` |
| `fw-update.ui.com` | `YOUR_RAILWAY_IP` |
| `apt.artifacts.ui.com` | `YOUR_RAILWAY_IP` |
| `apt-beta.artifacts.ui.com` | `YOUR_RAILWAY_IP` |
| `apt-release-candidate.artifacts.ui.com` | `YOUR_RAILWAY_IP` |

## 🧪 Testing

### Test from your local network

```bash
# Replace YOUR_RAILWAY_IP with your deployment IP
curl -I --resolve fw-download.ubnt.com:443:YOUR_RAILWAY_IP https://fw-download.ubnt.com/

# Expected response:
# HTTP/2 403
# x-amz-cf-pop: FRAxx
# server: cloudflare
```

The `403` response is normal (S3 bucket root access is forbidden), but it confirms the proxy is working.

### Test from Unifi device (SSH)

```bash
# SSH to your UDM-Pro
ssh root@YOUR_UDM_IP

# Check DNS resolution
nslookup fw-download.ubnt.com
# Should return: YOUR_RAILWAY_IP

# Test connection
curl -I https://fw-download.ubnt.com/
# Should return: HTTP/2 403 with CloudFront headers
```

## 📊 Monitoring

### Health Check Endpoints

- **`/health`** - Basic health check (for Railway)
  ```bash
  curl http://your-railway-app.railway.app:3000/health
  ```

- **`/stats`** - Detailed statistics
  ```bash
  curl http://your-railway-app.railway.app:3000/stats
  ```

- **`/ready`** - Readiness check
  ```bash
  curl http://your-railway-app.railway.app:3000/ready
  ```

### Logs

View logs in Railway dashboard or locally:

```bash
# Railway CLI
railway logs

# Local development
npm start
```

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────┐
│  Unifi Device   │
│  (UDM-Pro, etc) │
└────────┬────────┘
         │ DNS resolves fw-update.ubnt.com → Railway IP
         ↓
┌─────────────────┐
│  Railway Proxy  │
│  (This app)     │
│                 │
│  1. Read SNI    │
│  2. Check IP    │
│  3. Route       │
└────────┬────────┘
         │ TLS passthrough (no decryption)
         ↓
┌─────────────────┐
│  CloudFront     │
│  fw-update.     │
│  ubnt.com       │
└─────────────────┘
```

### How It Works

1. **Client Hello**: Unifi device initiates TLS connection
2. **SNI Extraction**: Proxy reads SNI from ClientHello (without decrypting)
3. **IP Validation**: Checks if client IP is in whitelist
4. **Domain Routing**: Maps SNI to correct upstream (e.g., `fw-update.ubnt.com:443`)
5. **TLS Passthrough**: Forwards raw TLS traffic bidirectionally
6. **End-to-End Encryption**: Traffic remains encrypted throughout

## 🔐 Security Considerations

1. **IP Whitelist**: Always configure `ALLOWED_IPS` to restrict access
2. **Rate Limiting**: Prevents abuse with per-IP connection limits
3. **No Decryption**: TLS traffic is never decrypted (passthrough only)
4. **Non-root User**: Docker container runs as unprivileged user
5. **Graceful Shutdown**: Proper connection cleanup on restart

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Proxy not accepting connections

```bash
# Check Railway logs
railway logs

# Verify PORT is set correctly (Railway auto-assigns)
# Check ALLOWED_IPS includes your WAN IP
```

### Unifi devices not connecting

```bash
# Verify DNS overrides in Unifi Controller
# Test DNS resolution from device:
nslookup fw-update.ubnt.com

# Check firewall rules on Railway (should allow port 443)
```

### Connection timeouts

```env
# Increase timeouts in Railway environment variables
PROXY_CONNECT_TIMEOUT=20000
PROXY_TIMEOUT=600000
```

## 📦 Project Structure

```
unifi-proxy/
├── src/
│   ├── server.js           # Main TCP proxy server
│   ├── config.js           # Configuration management
│   ├── logger.js           # Pino logger setup
│   ├── health-check.js     # Health endpoints & stats
│   └── utils/
│       ├── sni-parser.js   # SNI extraction from TLS
│       └── ip-filter.js    # IP whitelist with CIDR
├── Dockerfile              # Multi-stage Docker build
├── railway.json            # Railway configuration
├── package.json
├── .env.example
└── README.md
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## 📄 License

MIT License - feel free to use this project for personal or commercial purposes.

## 🙏 Credits

Based on the NGINX TLS passthrough configuration guide for Unifi firmware updates.

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

This proxy is intended for bypassing legitimate geo-restrictions on Unifi firmware updates. Use responsibly and in compliance with Ubiquiti's terms of service.

---

**Made with ❤️ for the Unifi community**

Commit message:

fix: Remove HTTP healthcheck for TCP proxy compatibility
Railway was attempting HTTP healthcheck on TCP proxy port (443),
which was blocked by IP whitelist. TCP proxies should use TCP
healthcheck instead of HTTP.

Changes:
- Removed healthcheckPath from railway.json (Railway will use TCP probe)
- Updated README with Railway configuration best practices
- Clarified that PORT is auto-assigned by Railway

This fixes Railway deployment health check failures.

README.md, after:

# Unifi Firmware Proxy

🚀 **TLS SNI Proxy for bypassing Unifi firmware update geo-blocking**

This Node.js application implements a TLS passthrough proxy that routes Unifi device firmware update traffic through your own server, effectively bypassing geo-restrictions without decrypting traffic.

## ✨ Features

- **TLS Passthrough** - SNI inspection without decrypting traffic (end-to-end encryption preserved)
- **IP Whitelist** - CIDR notation support for security
- **Rate Limiting** - Per-IP connection limits
- **Health Checks** - Railway-compatible health endpoints
- **Structured Logging** - JSON logs with Pino for production monitoring
- **Graceful Shutdown** - Proper connection cleanup on SIGTERM/SIGINT
- **Statistics** - Real-time connection and domain metrics

## 🎯 Supported Domains

The proxy automatically routes traffic for these Unifi domains:

- `fw-download.ubnt.com`
- `fw-update.ubnt.com`
- `fw-update.ui.com`
- `apt.artifacts.ui.com`
- `apt-beta.artifacts.ui.com`
- `apt-release-candidate.artifacts.ui.com`

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Deploy to Railway

1. **Fork this repository** to your GitHub account

2. **Create a new Railway project**:
   - Go to [Railway](https://railway.app)
   - Click "New Project" → "Deploy from GitHub repo"
   - Select your forked repository

3. **Configure environment variables** in Railway dashboard:
   ```env
   ALLOWED_IPS=YOUR_WAN_IP
   LOG_LEVEL=info
   ```

   **Important Notes:**
   - `PORT` - Don't set manually, Railway auto-assigns (will be exposed as 443 externally)
   - `ALLOWED_IPS` - **Must** be set to your WAN IP for security
   - `HEALTH_PORT` - Optional, defaults to 3000

4. **Get your Railway deployment URL** - Railway will provide a public IP/domain

5. **Configure your Unifi Network** (see Configuration section below)

### Local Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Copy environment template
cp .env.example .env

# Edit .env with your settings
nano .env

# Run in development mode (with auto-restart)
npm run dev

# Or run in production mode
npm start
```

## ⚙️ Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `PORT` | `443` | Main proxy server port (Railway will auto-assign) |
| `HEALTH_PORT` | `3000` | Health check HTTP server port |
| `ALLOWED_IPS` | `0.0.0.0/0` | Comma-separated IPs or CIDR ranges |
| `LOG_LEVEL` | `info` | Logging level (debug, info, warn, error) |
| `LOG_PRETTY` | `false` | Enable pretty logs for development |
| `PROXY_CONNECT_TIMEOUT` | `10000` | Upstream connection timeout (ms) |
| `PROXY_TIMEOUT` | `300000` | Idle connection timeout (ms) |
| `PREREAD_TIMEOUT` | `10000` | ClientHello read timeout (ms) |
| `RATE_LIMIT_PER_IP` | `100` | Connections per IP per minute |

### IP Whitelist Examples

```env
# Single IP
ALLOWED_IPS=203.0.113.5

# Multiple IPs
ALLOWED_IPS=203.0.113.5,198.51.100.10

# CIDR notation (subnet)
ALLOWED_IPS=192.168.1.0/24

# Mixed
ALLOWED_IPS=203.0.113.5,192.168.0.0/16,10.0.0.1
```

## 🔧 Unifi Network Configuration

After deploying the proxy, configure DNS overrides in your Unifi Network Controller:

### UniFi Network 9.4.19+ (Policy Engine)

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **Advanced Features** → **Policy Engine**
2. Go to **Policy Table** tab
3. Click **Create New Policy**
4. Select **DNS** → Type: **Host (A)**
5. Add these DNS overrides (replace `YOUR_RAILWAY_IP` with your Railway deployment IP):

| Domain Name | IP Address |
|-------------|------------|
| `fw-update.ubnt.com` | `YOUR_RAILWAY_IP` |
| `fw-download.ubnt.com` | `YOUR_RAILWAY_IP` |
| `fw-update.ui.com` | `YOUR_RAILWAY_IP` |
| `apt.artifacts.ui.com` | `YOUR_RAILWAY_IP` |
| `apt-beta.artifacts.ui.com` | `YOUR_RAILWAY_IP` |
| `apt-release-candidate.artifacts.ui.com` | `YOUR_RAILWAY_IP` |

## 🧪 Testing

### Test from your local network

```bash
# Replace YOUR_RAILWAY_IP with your deployment IP
curl -I --resolve fw-download.ubnt.com:443:YOUR_RAILWAY_IP https://fw-download.ubnt.com/

# Expected response:
# HTTP/2 403
# x-amz-cf-pop: FRAxx
# server: cloudflare
```

The `403` response is normal (S3 bucket root access is forbidden), but it confirms the proxy is working.

### Test from Unifi device (SSH)

```bash
# SSH to your UDM-Pro
ssh root@YOUR_UDM_IP

# Check DNS resolution
nslookup fw-download.ubnt.com
# Should return: YOUR_RAILWAY_IP

# Test connection
curl -I https://fw-download.ubnt.com/
# Should return: HTTP/2 403 with CloudFront headers
```

## 📊 Monitoring

### Health Check Endpoints

- **`/health`** - Basic health check (for Railway)
  ```bash
  curl http://your-railway-app.railway.app:3000/health
  ```

- **`/stats`** - Detailed statistics
  ```bash
  curl http://your-railway-app.railway.app:3000/stats
  ```

- **`/ready`** - Readiness check
  ```bash
  curl http://your-railway-app.railway.app:3000/ready
  ```

### Logs

View logs in Railway dashboard or locally:

```bash
# Railway CLI
railway logs

# Local development
npm start
```

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────┐
│  Unifi Device   │
│  (UDM-Pro, etc) │
└────────┬────────┘
         │ DNS resolves fw-update.ubnt.com → Railway IP
         ↓
┌─────────────────┐
│  Railway Proxy  │
│  (This app)     │
│                 │
│  1. Read SNI    │
│  2. Check IP    │
│  3. Route       │
└────────┬────────┘
         │ TLS passthrough (no decryption)
         ↓
┌─────────────────┐
│  CloudFront     │
│  fw-update.     │
│  ubnt.com       │
└─────────────────┘
```

### How It Works

1. **Client Hello**: Unifi device initiates TLS connection
2. **SNI Extraction**: Proxy reads SNI from ClientHello (without decrypting)
3. **IP Validation**: Checks if client IP is in whitelist
4. **Domain Routing**: Maps SNI to correct upstream (e.g., `fw-update.ubnt.com:443`)
5. **TLS Passthrough**: Forwards raw TLS traffic bidirectionally
6. **End-to-End Encryption**: Traffic remains encrypted throughout

## 🔐 Security Considerations

1. **IP Whitelist**: Always configure `ALLOWED_IPS` to restrict access
2. **Rate Limiting**: Prevents abuse with per-IP connection limits
3. **No Decryption**: TLS traffic is never decrypted (passthrough only)
4. **Non-root User**: Docker container runs as unprivileged user
5. **Graceful Shutdown**: Proper connection cleanup on restart

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Proxy not accepting connections

```bash
# Check Railway logs
railway logs

# Verify PORT is set correctly (Railway auto-assigns)
# Check ALLOWED_IPS includes your WAN IP
```

### Unifi devices not connecting

```bash
# Verify DNS overrides in Unifi Controller
# Test DNS resolution from device:
nslookup fw-update.ubnt.com

# Check firewall rules on Railway (should allow port 443)
```

### Connection timeouts

```env
# Increase timeouts in Railway environment variables
PROXY_CONNECT_TIMEOUT=20000
PROXY_TIMEOUT=600000
```

## 📦 Project Structure

```
unifi-proxy/
├── src/
│   ├── server.js           # Main TCP proxy server
│   ├── config.js           # Configuration management
│   ├── logger.js           # Pino logger setup
│   ├── health-check.js     # Health endpoints & stats
│   └── utils/
│       ├── sni-parser.js   # SNI extraction from TLS
│       └── ip-filter.js    # IP whitelist with CIDR
├── Dockerfile              # Multi-stage Docker build
├── railway.json            # Railway configuration
├── package.json
├── .env.example
└── README.md
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## 📄 License

MIT License - feel free to use this project for personal or commercial purposes.

## 🙏 Credits

Based on the NGINX TLS passthrough configuration guide for Unifi firmware updates.

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

This proxy is intended for bypassing legitimate geo-restrictions on Unifi firmware updates. Use responsibly and in compliance with Ubiquiti's terms of service.

---

**Made with ❤️ for the Unifi community**
